.TH OGGCUT 1 "JAN 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oggCut \- extracts parts of an ogg file (.ogv, .ogg and .oga)  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oggCut [options] inputfile outputfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oggCut
creates a new ogg file named 
.B outputfile
as a subpart of the original file named 
.B inputfile
.

oggCut is able to cut video (theora) only files, audio (vorbis) only files or files with both video and audio streams.

The start and end time for the cut area must be given in milliseconds with the options \-s and \-e.  

As a video stream consists of I\(hyframes (which are full pictures) and P\(hyframes (which are delta pictures to the leading I\(hyframe) the oggCut algorithm searches for the first I\(hyframe. If a video file would start with a p\(hyframe, the player is not able to interpret this picture, as the leading I\(hyframe (on where it is based) is not available. 
oggCut starts the I\(hyframe search at the start time given by the \-s option. So expect a shorter video time than the calculated seconds for the new file.

oggCut does not do any reencoding, therefore the output quality is completely the same as from the input file.

For those involved into the ogg container format: The file is cut on packet basis, not on page basis.

There is another tool called oggCut out in the internet with a different synopis. This one has not been written by the author of this tool you are actually using.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-s
Cut start position in ms. If the input file is a video file, the cut area starts with the next keyframe found. Default: 0

.I Example: \-s 5000 

.IP \-l
Length of the cut area in ms. If \-e is also given, the length is ignored.

.I Example: \-l 10000

.IP \-e
Cut end position in ms. If \-l is also used, the end position is prefered. If the end position is set to \-1, the end of the stream is assumed.

Default: \-1

.I Example: \-e 20000

.IP \-i \-o
Input file and output file set (alternative). 
These parameters can be used alternatively. They are overwritten by the arguments after the options. If there is one argument given, it is used as the input file (and overwrites a file given with -i). If there are two arguments, the input and output files from the -i and -o option values are overwritten.  

.SH EXAMPLE
.I oggCut \-s 1000 \-e 21000 myVideo.ogv myOutput.ogv

Creates a new video called myOutput.ogv from the video myVideo.ogv starting after 1 second ending after 21 seconds

.SH AUTHOR
Joern Seger <yorn at gmx dot net>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR oggCat (1),
.BR oggJoin (1),
.BR oggSplit (1),
.BR oggTranscode (1),
.BR oggSlideshow (1),
.BR oggThumb (1),
.BR oggSilence (1)
