.TH OGGTRANSCODE 1 "JAN 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oggTranscode \- transcodes ogg files in multiple ways 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oggTranscode [options] inputfile.ogv outputfile.ogv 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oggTranscode 
can resize an ogg file (ogg, oga or ogv) in multiple ways: 
It can change the video frame size, change datarate for the video and/or audio streams 
contained in the ogg file and it can also change the video frame rate or audio sample rate.

Additionally, since version 0.8 
.B oggTranscode 
can add any ogg comment and png\(hypictures with an alpha channel can be rendered into the 
video at any time period before and after the resizing process.

.B oggTranscode
was previously called 
.B oggResize.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-s
Sets the size of the video frame. The size is given as 
.B <width>x<height>.
At default, the video frame size keeps the same.

.I Example: \-s 320x240

.IP \-d
Sets the datarate in byte per seconds for the video encoder (theora). This meant 
to be a upper threshold. So the file may be smaller than assumed. If not set, 
the datarate of the original stream is used.

.I Example: \-d 1024000

.IP \-D
Sets the datarate in byte per seconds for the audio encoder (vorbis). 
If not set, the datarate of the original stream is used.

.I Example: -D 64000

.IP \-f
Sets the frame rate of the video with numinator and demoninator and is the
pictures per second. If only one number is given, the denominator is set to
1. If not set, the framerate of the original video is used.

.I Example: \-f 25:2

.IP \-F
Sets the sample frequency (sample rate) of the audio data in Hertz. If the 
sample frequency does not match the one with the original file, resamling is invoked. 

.I Example: \-F 32000

.IP \-c

Adds comments to the video (theora) stream. Comments are given by a pair 
of type and value in the form 'type=value'. More than one comment can be 
concatenated with a semicolon. It is recommended to use apostrophes 
as the command line may use the semicolon as a seperator.

.I Example: \-c 'AUTHOR=yorn;DATE=03.07.09'

.IP \-C
Adds comments to the audio (vorbis) stream. Comments are given by a pair 
of type and value in the form 'type=value'. More than one comment can be 
concatenated with a semicolon. It is recommended to use apostrophes 
as the command line may use the semicolon as a seperator.

.I Example: \-C 'AUTHOR=yorn;DATE=03.07.09'

.IP \-q
Specifies the quality for the resizing process. Values can be chosen between 1 (best
quality, with slight bluring) and 6 (worst quality). The default value is 2.

.I Example: \-q1

.IP \-p
This option is meant to help creating a preview of a film. The number
given with this option defines the number of frames, that are omitted. E.g.
if a film has 24 frames per second and \-p24 is given, the newly created
video shows the video 24 times faster as only every 24th frame is used. 
This option can be combined with the option \-f to control the framerate.
With both options nice video previews can be created. If \-p is used, the 
audio stream is ignored.

.I Example: \-p 24

.IP \-a
Adds a picture to the video frame before it is resized. 
The expression for the picture appearances:

.B <picture1.png>[,<startTime>[,<endTime>[,s]]]

.B startTime
in seconds - value can be a floating point.
Default 
.B startTime 
is 0

.B endTime
in seconds - value can be a floating point.
default 
.B endTime
is \-1, which is the end of the stream duration 

default 
.B s 
ist not set. If 
.B s 
is set, the picture slides in smoothly.

More than one picture can be included. 
To concatenate the expressions use the colon. 
If the appearance time overlap, the pictures are placed on one another, 
so the last picture is the uppest layer.

.I Example: \-a etwas.png,2,7,s:etwasneues.png,5,10

.IP \-A
Adds a picture to the video frame after it is resized.

The syntax follows the same expression as with option \-a.

.SH EXAMPLE

.I oggTranscode \-s320x240 \-d512000 orig.ogv new.ogv

Converts a the video 
.B orig.ogv 
to the video 
.B new.ogv 
with the new frame size 320x240. If
there was an audio stream within the orig.ogv file, it is copied into the new
file.

.I oggTranscode \-D64000 \-F16000 \-N1 orig.ogv new.ogv

Converts only the audio stream of file 
.B orig.ogv 
to a sample rate of 16kHz, a datarate of 64 kBit/s and a mono channel. 
The video stream is copied as is.  

.I oggTranscode \-s300x200 \-D32000 \-d1024000 \-A etwas.png,2,7,s:etwasneues.png,5,10 orig.ogv new.ogv

Converts the audio and video stream and adds the alpha channel picture 
.B etwas.png 
to the video from second 2 to second 7 with a smooth fade in and fade out.
Additionally the alpha channel picture
.B etwasneues.png
is placed on top of the video frame from second 5 to second 10 without any
fading.

.SH AUTHOR
Joern Seger <yorn at gmx dot net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR oggCut (1),
.BR oggCat (1),
.BR oggJoin (1),
.BR oggSplit (1),
.BR oggSlideshow (1),
.BR oggThumb (1),
.BR oggSilence (1)
